in this video we're going to do
something a little bit
different what i'm going to do is rank
my favorite
ielts tasks from cool bananas which
means
i love them right down to f which means
i really really
dislike them what we're also going to do
is i'm going to show you the different
tasks
give you an overview i'll talk to you
about some tips and some hints
i'll also share some experiences that
i've had having taken this exam
five times what i want you to do in the
comments below is tell me
which is your favorite ielts task and
which is your
least favorite ielts task let's get
going
okay let's start with the reading
section and we'll start with a
question called true false not given let
me show you what it looks like
okay so this is what the true false not
given question
looks like what you have here is a
statement the statement says something
like the old way claw belonged to a
dinosaur which used to hunt in southern
australia
you have to decide if that statement
says the same thing
as the text whether it contradicts the
text
or whether there's just not enough
information for you to decide whether
it's true false or not given
that is the nature of this question okay
okay so where am i going to put this in
terms of my favorite to least
favorite ielts reading task okay so
personally i kind of like this question
once you work out how to do it
and once you work out the difference
between false and not given which is the
most complex bit
it actually becomes kind of fun i'm
going to put it here in
a not quite cool bananas it's still
pretty fun
okay so the next one we're looking at is
very similar to true false not given
it's called yes
no not given the difference is that true
false not given looks at facts whereas
yes no not given looks at opinions
take a look at this one here so in
question one there it says the maps
are impressive to look at and you can
see here
that that is asking you about an opinion
from the text is it yes
no or not given in other words does it
say the same thing
is it contradictory or is there not
enough information there
well as far as i'm concerned it's very
similar to the first one we looked at so
let's also pop it in category a
okay so the next one is called match
headings and for some reason this
freaks people out but it shouldn't
because if you know the method
that is if you know that you read the
paragraph first
and then go to the list of headings i
think it's a pretty good one
let's take a look at it so this is what
it looks like and as i said you want to
start with the paragraph
first you want to read the paragraph get
an overall idea of the paragraph
and then hopefully one of those headings
will be the best
match for it and you simply drag it
across and put it into the little
gap here now
we're looking at the computer delivered
exam format if you're taking the
paper-based format it's pretty similar
you just write a letter
into the answer sheet there okay in
terms of
ranking match headings i like it i'm
going to put it also in category a
the next one is called diagram label
completion and as you can imagine you're
going to see a diagram on the page some
sort of image or
visual take a look at this one okay and
what you need to do is you need to
label the parts of the diagram and the
way that you do that is you need to
understand the
text one thing you want to keep in mind
with this diagram label completion is
that it is not in order that is
the answer to number one is not
necessarily located at the start of the
paragraph
the answer to number one might be at the
bottom or in the middle of the paragraph
so keep that in mind
okay so how am i going to rank this one
this one i find a little bit boring it's
not too bad i might pop it in
c
the next one is called summary note or
flowchart completion so you're going to
see a summary
a note or a flowchart actually let me
just show you it looks like this so here
we're looking at a
summary now on the left hand side we've
got a paragraph or paragraphs
possibly about the history of chocolate
or some other topic
the summary is basically a paraphrase
of that text there okay so it's written
in other words
what you have to do is take a word or a
couple of words
and fill those gaps so the summary says
the exact same thing
as the text with this one you need to be
careful to read the instructions very
carefully
for this one for example it says no more
than
two words so you can put one word or you
can put
two words but you cannot put three words
and you cannot put a number
either because it doesn't say you could
do that
all right so for this one here
it's a little bit boring it's not the
funnest thing i've ever done in my life
let's put it in d
all right next question this one's
called short answer so you're going to
see a short question you just have to
find a word or a couple of words from
the text to answer that question looks
like
this so you can see there number one
what was the ship
carrying when it sank you need to find a
word or a couple of words or in fact
look at the instructions there no more
than three words
and or a number so you can have one word
two words three words
you can have one word and a number two
words in a number or three words and a
number
one thing you want to keep in mind with
this one is that if you have a noun like
the word
chest for example you may also need to
put the adjective in there as well like
treasure chest
so just be careful with that of course
chest would be wrong because it's not
specific enough whereas treasure chest
if that's the answer would be correct
okay keep that in mind
all right this one let's take a look
where i'm going to put it
all right i'm going to pop this one in c
because to be honest
it's not confusing it's very
straightforward and that's always a good
thing
if you're finding all of these different
ielts question types a little bit
confusing you are not alone it can be
confusing
if you need help you can download the
free ielts ultimate guide from the
description below and
that's where we outline all the
different tasks for you and give you
lots of tips etc
let's now take a look at another one
called sentence completion looks like
this
okay so with this one you have to find a
word or a couple of words from the text
to fill the gap
it's very straightforward in fact it's
very similar to short answer
except with this one you're just
completing the sentence
so just like short answer with sentence
completion you want to make sure that
you capture enough of the words for
specificity that is you're getting the
right answer so again
like chest versus treasure chest but
also keep in mind the instructions
because maybe it says just write
one word max okay keep that in mind
okay so let's rank reading sentence
completion i think it's pretty similar
to short answer i'm going to pop it next
to it in
c right we're now up to one
which i do not like so let's take a look
at this one it's reading match
information i'll show you what it looks
like
okay so on the left hand side you will
see paragraphs of text these paragraphs
are labeled a b
c and d on the right hand side you'll
see a little table or at least this is
what it looks like for the computer
delivered exam
and you'll see a statement for example
the origins of the legend of
arthur you need to decide in which
paragraph that statement is located or
that meaning is located
so for example it might be located in
paragraph a
or paragraph b now the kicker with this
one is if you look at number two a new
investigation into the history of the
site
that may also be located in paragraph b
it doesn't necessarily come from a
different paragraph
so with this sort of question you
definitely need to practice before
test day not just for the reading itself
but to actually understand how that
table works and what the relationship is
between the statements and the
paragraphs and the instructions
it's pretty complicated one of the good
things is on e2language.com we have
these
methods lessons where me or alex will
take you through this
in detail and explain it to you so on
test day
you're going to know exactly what to do
okay let's
rank this one i'm going to put it right
at the bottom
all right this one sucks i'm going to
put it in f
the next one is not much better it's a
little
less confusing but it's still really
weird i just don't like the question
itself let's take a look at match
sentence endings all right so on the
left you see a text and on the right
hand side you see
half sentences what you need to do is
choose the correct
ending for each sentence so for example
let's look at this one the first one of
vista social club was a
what well-known place for musicians to
gather and play music
may be correct because the sentence
makes sense but now
this sentence needs to make sense or be
contained within the paragraph somewhere
so it needs to have the same meaning the
tricky thing about this
is you might find a sentence that makes
sense like we just did except it's just
not located in the paragraphs at all
it's a distractor so you need to be
aware of that
let's rank this one this one is not
much better than match information i'm
not a fan i'm going to put it
in e you'll be happy to know that the
next one is very straightforward it's
called multiple choice and you've
probably seen it a thousand times anyway
i'll show you what it looks like it
looks like this
and as you can imagine you have to
select one of the answer options
sometimes you have to select two answer
options as well
despite the format of this one being
pretty
simple and you've seen it a thousand
times it's not my favorite because
multiple choice
questions can be pretty perplexing
pretty tricky
the reason is they're going to put
distractors in there that is let's say
there's four answer options
one is going to be correct three will be
very tempting
they're going to use words or phrases
from the text so it sort of
looks like it might be the answer but it
just won't be the answer
either will be contradictory or not
quite right or not even mentioned at all
so
this one let's see where i put it
yeah i'm going to put it in d it's not
too bad but it's not
particularly fun lucky last
is reading match features and as far as
i'm concerned
this is just as confusing as the match
information one we saw before
let me show you what it looks like all
right so how this question
typically works is there will be a list
of people
or plants or something like that right
you can see
down there in the little box jill
coleman teresa wilson
peggy lemon and tim melton
what you then need to do is read this
statement
and decide which of the people actually
wrote about it or
talked about it so for example it might
be teresa wilson mentioned something
about this
therefore i'll put b for teresa wilson
so this question like the match
information one we did before
is really quite confusing in terms of
its layout right you need to know what
to do
long before test day what we've been
doing is actually looking at practice
questions on
e2language.com so that's a good thing
you definitely need to understand
how to do them in addition we have these
things called methods lessons these are
video lessons where we take you through
the individual questions step by step
and show you how to find the right
answer
let's rank match features i'm going to
pop it right at the bottom
right next to match information they are
my two
least favorite reading tasks
all right so we finished the reading
section let's take a look at how i rank
them all
so i've put the true false and the yes
no's at the top with match headings
in the c category i've got diagram label
completion short answer and sentence
completion they're pretty
straightforward i kind of like them
a little bit below that we've got the
note table flowchart completion
and the multiple choice questions which
can get pretty complex and tricky
match sentence endings is a bit weird
and then you've got match
information and match features which as
far as i'm concerned
are pretty peculiar questions let's now
turn our attention to the speaking
section
all right so the speaking section in
ielts has three
parts in part one i like to think of it
as like
small talk basically you're having a
conversation with the
examiner about quite mundane topics like
they'll ask you questions like
where do you live do you work or do you
study do you like the rain which is also
a very strange question
this i think is pretty straightforward
you just answer
in like a few sentences don't make your
answers too short
try and show off your vocabulary and
your grammar a little bit
this one i like it i'm going to put
speaking part 1
here in b
so in speaking part 2 after you've done
the small talk you will then be given a
task card that looks like this
the task card will be on a specific
topic it might be something like
talk about a gift that you receive
recently or bicycles or holidays or
music
something pretty straightforward it's
also going to have
three dot points which you can use to
guide you in this speaking task
you're going to have one minute to
prepare and then you have to
speak on that topic for up to
two minutes so i've done this exam
five times so i've actually done the
ielts ielts speaking test
five times and with this particular task
i find it
pretty challenging the challenge is that
you need to speak for
two minutes ideally without going round
and round in circles
okay so you do need some sort of method
or structure to help you
and you do need to practice this one
before test day even if you're a native
english speaker
you might get into the exam if you
haven't prepared and just speak for like
20 seconds and then think oh my god
that's not enough and start going around
around in circles
so with this particular task i'm going
to rank it as
e i find this task
just unnatural it's very strange in life
that we'll speak for two minutes
on a topic without breaking or without
asking somebody a question
so in speaking part three it's an
extension of the topic in speaking part
two so let's say for example you talked
about
art in speaking part three you'll then
be
asked by the examiner more complex sort
of more philosophical questions about
art do you purchase art what do you
think about the nature of this blah blah
blah
in this section you really have to
extend your vocabulary
and your grammar and your answers and of
course be very conscious
of the way you're speaking and speak
very clearly personally i like this one
because
i have the vocabulary and grammar to get
a little bit philosophical
and i have thought about these topics
and you probably have two
okay so you do need to show off your
language in part three
i'm going to put part 3
up here in a
alright so that's the speaking section
there are three parts and i've ranked
them like this
i put speaking part three in category a
because it's a great chance for you to
get a little bit
philosophical and show off your
vocabulary and grammar
speaking part one i just think it's very
simple so i've put it in category b
and speaking part two is you know what
i'm actually going to move it to
f category f because it's just weird and
i find it challenging and you really
need to practice that particular part
okay so let's turn our attention to the
listening section now i'm going to start
with
form note table flowchart summary
completion
this is always i won't say always but i
will say
nearly always the first listening task
that you'll get in your ielts listening
section
let's take a look at it all right you
probably know this one it looks like
this here you have some sort of form and
you're going to be listening for the
person's last name where they'll
spell it and it'll be spelled really
strange it'll be like
stevenson with a ph or something
and then their address and their
telephone number and the value of
something
so my little tip for this one is again
just read the instruction because you
might have only
one word and or a number to play with
make sure you understand what that
instruction means
so for example if it says two words and
or
a number do you understand all the
different permutations combinations
you're allowed there
that means you're allowed to write just
one number or one word or one word and a
number
or something like that so please do
understand the instructions
okay i'm going to rank this one
pretty highly because it's dead simple
i'm going to put it in
category b
okie dokie we're on a bit of a roll now
let's look at
listening sentence completion it looks
like this
it's pretty similar to the one we just
looked at except the difference with
this one is it's going to be
paraphrased so see number one there it
says the hotel reservation is
under the name of blah and you obviously
have to write down somebody's name
the key to this one is that in the audio
it's going to say the same sentence but
in other words so it won't say
the hotel reservation is under the name
of blah blah blah
it's going to say okay so you're booking
i'm going to put that in the name of
booking hotel reservation you're going
to be listening for synonyms paraphrases
etc
good news is the audio and the questions
follow the same order that is
question number one will be located at
the beginning number two is a little bit
further on number three is a little bit
further on etc
this one i'm going to rank it as
i'm going to pop it in
yeah i'm going to yeah i'm going to pop
it in category b
next to the form note table flowchart
summary completion because
just like the other one it's
straightforward
this one that we're looking at now is
very similar to sentence completion
except instead of filling a gap within a
sentence you're going to
answer a question with a word or a
couple of words
taken directly from the audio that you
hear
okay looks like this so you can see with
question
one it says in addition to writing a
report what must the students prepare
and you're going to be listening very
carefully in the recording for something
that they must get ready for
or prepare again with this one you're
going to be listening for
synonyms and paraphrases that is the
audio will not say the exact same
words as what's written on the screen
there or on your test booklet
it's going to be written in other
language but it will mean the same thing
and you're going to be keeping your ear
out does that make sense
you're going to be listening very
carefully for that particular word or
phrase to fill the gap okay
how am i going to rank this one yeah
this one's not a problem i'm also going
to pop it in category b
all right so now we have another one of
those crazy
matching questions except this time it's
in the listening section
right it's another one of these tables
that can get a little bit perplexing or
confusing take a look at this
so if you look carefully you'll see a
little list down the bottom
a he will take it in semester one b
he'll take it in semester two
c he won't take it this academic year
and you'll see
a list of different subjects there
critical theory popular culture cinema
studies
what you need to decide according to
what you
hear is when will he take those
particular subjects
so it always follows this format however
the content will change so it might not
be subjects it'll be names of books that
he's going to read or
something like that okay now how do you
actually do it
so he might take critical theory and
semester two
and cinema studies in semester two and
politics and gender in semester two uh
and you'll take the rest in semester one
and c might remain empty for example
just keep that in mind you do not have
to fill the table completely
i mean you have to tick them all but
this particular column you might not
have to tick or
this particular column that's why this
one's a bit tricky okay this one belongs
as far as i'm concerned
right down the bottom with the other
matching questions which bamboozle the
mind let's put it in category f
the next one freaks people out
it's called plan map or diagram labeling
looks like this okay so what you're
going to see on test day is some sort of
visual diagram this one is a town
library and you'll see labels like
seminar room
fiction non-fiction library area library
office
you'll also see gaps with numbers and
you need to listen very carefully
and you need to figure out what is going
to go
in that gap you have to type a word or
maybe a couple of words or if you're
taking the computer delivered exam
you need to drag and drop the word
into the little gap there all right the
key to this one as far as i'm concerned
is to find out where the starting point
is so on that map we just saw we saw the
word
entrance and it's always going to start
at the entrance and move
north and then northwest for example in
the right wing or whatever okay
and then it will return back to the
entrance and go from the entrance again
for number two you go this way back to
the entrance for number three you go
this way
so as long as you identify that entrance
you've always got a starting point
then of course you need to be listening
carefully there's going to be
distractors we'll say on the opposite
side or to the south of
you need to there will always be a
little compass there if they are in fact
going to mention
cardinal directions so how am i going to
rank this
one it's pretty complicated
this one i'm going to put i kind of
like it actually it's kind of fun yeah
it's hard but it's fun i'm going to put
it in b
the next one is not so fun it's very
straightforward it's another multiple
choice question but
it requires you to do this crazy thing
with your brain where you're going to be
listening carefully
and then reading very quickly then
listening carefully reading
like that and it can really uh do your
head in if you haven't practiced it
let's take a look at it all right so
it's a typical multiple choice question
style that's fine but the complexity
comes in here because you have to read
espresso has been popular in rome since
then you have to be listening very
carefully you might forget what the
question prompt was you have to read it
again
while you're reading you're not going to
be able to listen and then when you're
listening you can't read
so it requires you to do this thing
called flash reading
where you read and then listen and read
and then listen etc
so while this is an easy question format
it doesn't pose a problem in that regard
it does pose a problem because
it's hard to do i'm going to put it in e
okie dokie so we've now just done the
listening section you'll be glad to know
that there
are not any other tasks than what we've
just done but nevertheless it's
still a bit confusing and considering we
looked at 11
reading tasks three speaking tasks and
now all the listening tasks
you're probably thinking to yourself oh
my god it's too much to remember
maybe it is that's why you should
download the free
ultimate guide from the description
below and more importantly come across
to e2language.com
do the practice questions watch the
methods lessons and join our live
classes that happen twice a day
every day so you get to actually
practice the methods and it's
fun because they're expert teachers all
right we're now up to the writing
section we're going to start
with my least favorite task of all
academic writing task one this one
stings let me show you what it looks
like
all right in academic writing task one
you have
it's up to you but you should use 20
minutes of your one hour
to write at least 150 word a 150 word
description
of some sort of visual data it's going
to be a line graph or a bar chart or pie
chart or maybe even
two or maybe even three as this one is
here this one really
does your head in because
it requires you to be very very concise
150 words is not much and there's a lot
going on
in these graphs and you have to write
about the most salient
important features and you have to
ignore everything else
and your language has to be well
this is why it's a good test of your
english
you have to consider things like your
grammatical accuracy of course
but also your grammatical range you
can't just write the same sentence types
your vocabulary precision that is
your word choice as well as your
vocabulary range because you need to use
synonyms you need to make sure it's well
structured
and most importantly or yeah most
importantly
you need to make sure that you're
writing it in an accurate way you're
actually talking about the graph
so you're juggling all of these things
at once
holy moly i'm going to pop this
right down here in f this one
really does suck okay so this one might
suck a little bit but
like anything in life from a distance it
seems complicated and then you actually
do it and you go
ah it's not that bad one of the good
things about e2 language
again we've got these methods lessons
for all the different graph types
we actually show you how to analyze it
how to structure it
etc and if you do want feedback we also
offer writing feedback we submit it
through the system
one of our experts will mark it
according to the criteria
and send it back to you okay let's take
a look at general writing task
one now which is if you're taking
academic you do not have to take this
one this is for
ielts general so in this one you
write a letter and the letter looks like
this
so you'll see a little task card that
says you were hurt in a small
accident in a store last week write a
letter to the store manager in your
letter
introduce yourself describe what happens
say what action you would like the
manager to take
write at least 150 words and your letter
will look something like that there's a
good
sample response on e2language.com
alright so if you understand what the
examiners are
looking for in the letter then this one
is
easy i think i'm going to put it right
at the top in the cool bananas category
you see the key for ielts writing is
exactly that understanding the criteria
or what the examiners are going to be
looking for in your writing basically
they have a checklist and they're going
to be asking questions
did he or she do this this this this
and this and once you understand what
they're looking for that is
grammatical range grammatical accuracy
coherence cohesion or
structure macro structure or paragraph
structure
did you write on topic did you have
vocab
precise vocabulary a wide range of
vocabulary
once you've practiced with these
criteria in mind
and it's a bit like juggling because you
have to keep them all in mind as you're
writing your
your letter or as we're about to talk
about your essay
then you can't be sure you're going to
get a high score but it's going to
certainly help you okay
okay on that let's look at writing task
two now
this is what the essay prompts look like
so you'll see a range of different essay
prompts like opinion essays or
discuss the advantages and disadvantages
or
discuss both views or problem solutions
double questions in this essay for
example it says
advertising has become an unavoidable
part of everyone's life
some people say that advertising is a
positive part of our lives while
others say it is a negative one discuss
both views and include your own opinion
cool so you need to do that you need to
discuss both of those views and
include your own opinion always answer
the question
okay don't come in on test day with some
memorized
template of an essay because you're
going to write off topic
you're immediately going to get a low
score if you come in
with a very flexible mindset you do
understand how to
structure the essay no matter what essay
it is because you understand how to
structure up an introduction
your body paragraphs whether it's single
idea or double idea paragraphs
and your conclusion and you read that
question
and you answer it and you think about
the criteria
that is vocabulary precision vocabulary
range grammatical
accuracy grammatical range the structure
and you're on topic
then you're going to do okay if not well
right so how am i going to rank
writing task 2 for ielts the one that
everybody hates
well i think they only hate it because
they don't know how to structure it up
properly and once you learn that
structure i think it's
totally cool bananas there it is in the
cool bananas category
all right so that there is all
of the ielts tasks there are a lot of
them let's take a look at how i rank
them
so my two favorite tasks are
the general writing task one letter and
the writing task to
essay that's because as long as you
understand the criteria and how to
structure them i think you're going to
be okay with that
high up on the list there i've got some
reading ones including the true false
not given and yes no not given match
headings
as well as speaking part three where you
get to get philosophical with the
examiner
i've also got speaking part 1 there
pretty high up as well as a few
listening tasks and if we go down the
list
right to the bottom you'll see my least
favorite tasks which include
match information and match features
from the reading section
that's because they're confusing and
will blow your mind
you need to learn how they work before
test day speaking part two because it's
weird
you have to do a monologue you have to
speak for two minutes on a particular
topic that's
tough listening matching is also very
confusing
and academic writing task one is
confusing however
i'm gonna move this because like writing
task 1 and
2 up the top i think once you learn how
to do it
it's not too bad i'm going to put that
there in category b
so that's that they are my favorite and
least favorite ielts tasks what about
you which ones do you like the most and
which ones do you
dislike the most pop it into the
comments below
don't forget to subscribe to this
youtube channel because we release
really good
videos and also check out e2language.com
if you're very
serious about your ielts preparation my
name is jay
see you soon
you